Warren,
welcome to another episode of
Adventures in DevOps.
It feels like we were just here.
Warren, that was to you.
I know, you know,
I just so thought that you
had something else lined up
after that because in the past,
sometimes you just keep on going.
Right.
Oh, so maybe I tend to ramble.
Yeah.
That's fair.
Yeah,
it does happen to even the best of us
once we get onto a topic
that really meets close to our hearts.
And I feel like we have a
good one lined up for today.
Dude,
I am so excited about today because
we'll just cut to the chase
because I'm sure everyone
on the podcast feed has
already seen the title.
And joining us today is Kelsey Hightower.
Kelsey, welcome to the show.
Happy to be here.
I'm so excited to have you here.
So just to,
I feel like you don't need an
introduction,
but I want to make sure that
everyone who's listening
who may not know who you
are is familiar with you.
You're a software engineer, developer,
advocate,
and speaker most well-known for
Kubernetes and your work
for open source and your
time spent at Google.
Is that a pretty fair assessment?
Yeah,
I think that's a good assessment of
the last mile.
The last eight years of a
twenty five year career.
You know, before that,
I used to work in enterprise IT,
financial services,
praying to God that the
Apache server doesn't fall
over in the middle of the night.
I've worked in web hosting, tech support.
I've contributed to Python, Ansible,
Terraform.
And so throughout my career,
I've had many of the roles
that I'm guessing a lot of
your listeners have had.
And I think maybe the thing
that maybe some of the
listeners haven't done is
that part where you start
to contribute to the tools
that you use every day,
the part where you actually
join the community of
people thinking about what comes next,
thinking about not just
reporting the bugs, but fixing the bugs.
And I think that's just
brings balance to someone's
career where there becomes
a lot of outward facing work.
And you see that in form of conferences,
open source contributions,
tweets on Twitter, those kind of things.
Yeah,
I think I talk with a lot of people
getting started in their tech career,
and I think that's one of
the things that a lot of them have.
they struggle with is they
see someone like you in the
last eight years of your
career and they're like,
how do I get there?
You know, and they're looking for,
you know,
they're searching Google job postings,
looking for Kelsey
Hightower's replacement.
And I'm like, no, you, you have to,
you got to start at the
entry level and you, you,
you sort of have to grind your way up.
And I think that's, um,
think that's somewhere along
the way we've missed
communicating that message
over the last generation
yeah I mean it's hard I
mean when we watch things
that are typically
televised professional
sports you know they don't
televise the middle school
games right they televise
the pro games and so when
you're watching the pros
you know you're seeing
twenty five year training
be perfected and then you're
only seeing the one zero
zero one percent of all the
people who've tried this do
it so what you're watching
is the absolute pinnacle of
that particular thing and I
think it's okay to kind of
observe those things and
then people say hey what
happens when you meet
someone like that try to
ask like how the how they
got to that point because
it's these little things
where I always encourage
people if you're on year one year five
Most people are trying to
get to what they see on the
screen that they don't pay
attention to the nuance and
the detail like learning
how to work with other people.
Learning how to communicate
to your manager that you
don't feel challenged and
you would like to do something more.
Learning how the tools you use work.
Oh, I'm just writing PHP.
Like PHP is used by Facebook
in production.
There are ways to make it faster.
There are ways to build
things like Shopify.
Pay attention to the things
that are in front of you.
Don't race past that because
I think what people end up with is
Those first five to ten
years almost throw away and
they didn't really learn a lot.
I met a guy that reached out
for mentoring.
He's like, hey,
I'm trying to get to the next level.
And he blamed everything on the job.
Oh, I'm only doing this.
These people are slow.
They don't know what's going on.
And I'm sitting here and I'm like,
what do you do?
He's like, well,
I do a little bit of this.
And he mentioned I manage
the VMware environment.
I said, oh, oh, this is great.
You can definitely carry
that particular thing on to
the next thing.
Why are they using VMs
instead of bare metal?
Couldn't answer the question.
I was like, oh, you haven't been learning.
You've just been doing.
You've gotten the
instructions and you've
mastered the instructions
so well that you think you
know how it works.
I was like,
what I want you to do is go
back on Monday.
And just ask a question.
Why are we using VMs instead
of bare metal?
Is there a performance overhead?
When should you not use a VM?
Is there a security-related clause?
How does Intel assist in this?
There are so many levels to
this that I promise you
that you have not
necessarily learned
everything you can at the current job.
You just haven't been asking
the right questions.
And so I always encourage people,
slow down a little bit.
Go deep before you move on.
Yeah,
and I think the attitude that you
have makes a huge difference there.
And instead of finding faults outside,
Jocko Willink talks about this a lot,
you know,
instead of finding faults outside,
internalize it and say,
what can I do to change this?
Because really,
I'm the only variable I
have control over.
And it seems like that seems to be very,
very effective for people long term.
I always ask myself,
what do you attribute that to?
Throughout like your childhood,
when you grow up, you know,
I was lucky I was born in any one.
So I was part of a
generation that played outside, you know,
pre internet, pre smartphones.
And going outside,
you kind of do have to fend for yourself.
You can't call mom, right?
You go play basketball in
the park and someone gives
you a hard foul.
There's no referee.
There's no replay.
There's no challenge.
You just keep playing.
You figure out what the
boundaries are and you try
to stay in those particular lanes.
My first job was at McDonald's.
Now you can complain about
that and it doesn't make all that money,
but you can actually go
sweep the lobby with some
integrity and do it to the
highest level that you're capable of.
And so,
and I also played sports and also
like it's a team,
but the team expects you to do your part.
And so I think there's a lot
of this part of,
what am I supposed to do?
And have I done what's
necessary in terms of preparation,
showing up with the right attitude?
I've learned that it's not
always about being the best.
Sometimes the best person
with the wrong attitude is
the person you don't want, right?
Like you think about it,
you need a surgery and your
surgeon has a bad attitude today.
I don't know if being the
best is all you need here.
I need someone to stay focused.
I want to make sure that I
am the most important
person in that room at that moment.
That's the type of attitude I think,
and it's hard to do this every day.
If you've been at a job for six years,
Is it easy to have the best
attitude in the world on
six years and five months?
It's hard to come in like it's day one.
But if you find yourself
kind of too far off,
then you've got to just ask yourself like,
hey, is my attitude where it needs to be?
And if not,
maybe I do need to take a
vacation and hit the reset button.
Yeah, for sure.
And I think that's where
like a solid morning
routine is helpful long term for that,
you know,
making sure that right off the bat,
you're doing something that
puts your mind in that
framework that you want to
be because you can just
kind of ride the waves and end up.
however you,
whatever mood you're in for the day,
or if you have a routine, like, oh,
I'm going to listen to, you know,
this particular piece of
music or this motivational speech or do,
you know,
there's a thousand ways to do it,
but you can actually direct
what kind of attitude
you're going to have during the day.
And I noticed personally,
when I fall out of that routine,
that it definitely shows up.
And then I'm really
fortunate to have a good
set of friends who call me
out on it and help me stay on track.
I needed a reminder last week.
I was given a keynote.
And I mean,
I don't think I put enough
attention into the preparation.
You know,
I have a lot of tricks in my bag.
I have lots of stories.
I have a lot of go-tos.
But I was meaning to do some new stuff.
And so I ended up holding
off doing the new stuff
until two days before.
And so now I'm like, oh, man,
I'm not putting my best foot forward.
I'm trying to compensate by
doing unnatural things.
Like, why am I adding all these slides?
You don't even use slides.
And I just have to remind myself.
And it was a little different than, like,
the motivational thing.
I had to remind myself that
I have put in the effort.
This is not a two days of preparation.
This has been a lifetime of preparation.
And I remember saying to
myself that morning as I
was deleting all this extra
stuff that I didn't need,
don't afraid to be great.
You're good at this.
Why are you so afraid of being great?
Why are you overcompensating,
trying to plan the whole thing out?
Leave a room,
leave a little room for just being great.
Go on stage and have the
confidence you need.
And what I needed at that
moment was just the confidence component.
You think, hey,
you've done lots of these keynotes.
You should like no longer be
fearful of the stage.
I am.
And sometimes I just need
that little confidence
boost because that's the
difference between
A good talk for me and a
great talk for me is how I'm feeling.
And so once I said that,
I walked to the conference.
I didn't know how I was going to open it,
but I wasn't afraid of being great.
And it turned out great.
Right on.
So speaking of conferences and your career,
you are recently retired.
So...
Congratulations.
Does this mean that you're
trading in the family car
for a golf cart moving out to Sun City,
Arizona?
The phrase I've heard the
best is I'm retired, not tired.
It doesn't mean that I just
want to go off and do
nothing and sit by the beach.
That's not it.
What I realized is that
there were lots of things
that I like doing.
I like building stuff.
when it comes to technology,
I love the delta between a
project and a product.
And then when it comes to public speaking,
it's how I think out loud.
Right?
So I'm thinking about a
bunch of things all the time,
there are things that catch my eye,
I have my own opinion, hopefully,
it's an informed opinion.
And then when I get a chance
to go on stage, I get to think out loud.
And sometimes it causes
other people to think I
love those components.
So when I retire in July of last year,
One thing I kept were those things.
So how do you do projects to products?
Well,
advising companies like Docker and Vercel,
companies behind Argo CD.
These are all teams trying to go and say,
hey, we got a great project.
People like it.
Can we build a business out
of this so it can be sustainable?
And so those elements I'm pretty good at.
So when I can join the team
and exist in that in any way,
I can keep doing that.
And the same goes for building things.
These days, way less software,
but more DUI home improvements.
And people are like,
do you just buy like a brand new house?
Like, yes, it's a brand new house.
First person to ever live in it.
But there are parts of it
that I think need to change.
And so I started learning
all the things just like
you learn software,
a bunch of YouTube videos.
But there's one big
difference about software
and like physical things.
There are codes.
There are compliance things
you have to do.
Like in software,
you can take all the shortcuts you want.
If it builds, so be it.
And the thing you live in
that you expect to keep you safe,
there are codes.
And as someone who considers
themself a software developer,
some people will call it an engineer.
Having guidelines really helps.
Like when you're writing in
a typed language,
it tells you when you're
passing around the wrong
type between functions.
Or you have a compiler that
really understands what
you're trying to do and it
yells at you when you're
not doing the right thing.
Having building codes,
if you can find them,
is a really helpful way of
guiding you into, oh,
I should staple this Romix
cable twelve inches before
it goes into my electrical panel.
Those things are important
because there's a group of
people who do this professionally.
They have taken time to
write down these codes so
you don't burn your house down.
So that's been an
interesting kind of pivot,
but lots of carryover.
Right on.
So one thing you mentioned
there that I thought was
really cool was the
difference between a
project and a product.
Because I've spent most of
my career working with
early stage startups, and I found that
Like that's the difference.
Like there's always a
difference in successful
startups that make it.
There's always the product
that you launch with and
the product that your
customers thought you launched with.
And successful companies are
able to identify that gap
and close it as quickly as possible.
And I think that sort of
resonates with the same
thing that you were saying,
the difference between a
project and a product.
You launch with a project
and you use that to build
the product that your customers want.
The hard part about this is
that a spoon is a very useful tool.
There's lots of value in a spoon.
Almost every person in the
world knows what a spoon is
or has used one.
And so when you think about it,
this should be an easy way
to start a business around spoons,
at least the first spoon.
But you'll realize that a
spoon is a feature.
It is a feature of a kitchen
or it requires all the other things,
plates, forks, knives.
So you got to sell a set,
but everyone can sell a set.
And so like there's not a lot of margin,
maybe the materials you use,
how fancy it is,
but some people just want a spoon.
And so spoons do well when
sold alongside other things, right?
You're probably better off
selling your spoon in Ikea
than starting a standalone
brick and mortar spoon shop.
It's not going to work.
There's a lot of value in a spoon.
You can go and do research and say,
thirty four percent of the
world uses a spoon.
Doesn't matter.
You will not be a standalone
business selling spoons.
And I think startups have the same thing.
You give away software the
lowest price point possible.
on open source and it's
pretty good it solves a
need that's why you built
it especially the ones that
come from like someone
using in production at a
real company and then they
decide to open source it
all the kinks have worked
out they've done all the
right things to get into
production but then they
give it away lots of things
sell quote unquote if you
gave them away like
even cars you don't like if
they gave them away they
would be the best selling
cars in the world because
they're free and a lot of
people confuse the ability
to give something away for
the ability to sell
something and they're not
remotely the same thing and
the teams look very
different so when you just
have a great project you
can over index on technical people
Ideally,
those technical people know how to
interact with the community,
but even then, that's not required.
If it just works well, like grep,
I don't know who maintains grep.
Grep just works.
And so I don't know who the
product manager is, if there is one.
But the moment you want to
start charging money and
you expect people to pay,
now you got to start
talking to customers.
And customers usually want
things like integrations,
FedRAMP compliance, SSO,
all of these things that
technically your project doesn't need.
but your customers do.
So helping people go from
project to product is that
kind of delta building real
rounded teams.
One thing I noticed a lot is
a lot of founders struggle
with the story.
I have a cool new IDE.
I say great.
Look at all the things that
can do I say oh, that's,
that's beautiful.
But here's the thing.
People use Vim, Emacs and VS code.
What is your story to them?
Oh no, we're better than Vim,
Emacs and VS Code,
so you're not listening.
Those things already work.
They've been here,
they have a great track
record and they have communities.
Your thing is new.
What is your story?
And what I mean by story is,
do you support Vim bindings?
Can I import my VIM config
that I spent three years
getting just right?
Or do I have to start over
learning all your settings?
These are the little nuances
that go from project to product.
Will is totally sold already on your IDE,
and he already wants to buy
it if he can import his VIM
bindings right away.
It's all he's been talking
about for like the last six
weeks is how much he wants
to write code directly in
production using his IDE.
CICD, baby.
Actually, I'm stuck on the spoons thing.
I'm going to start a SaaS,
spoons as a service.
Well,
it's really interesting because I
think there was a very
important embedded wisdom
here that I feel like you
just slightly highlighted
and then moved on to the next thing.
And that's,
I bet there's a great desire to
actually have spoons as a use case,
right?
You know, I want a spoon.
And so your customers may be
even giving you this
feedback about how great a spoon is, but
If you aren't able to turn
it into an actual product,
everything around it,
that feedback is actually
what you shouldn't be
listening to because
there's no money to be made
in that specific feature
that you're offering.
And so there's a difference
of whether or not you're
listening to the users that
are able to help you make
your company great or your
product great and deliver
to market and the ones that
are just telling you the
one little annoyance thing
that they have and getting stuck on that.
I think we're also getting
to a point where everything
doesn't need to be a product.
And then people struggle with this, right?
Because most people believe
if you create some value,
there should be a path of
getting rich from that value.
And as much as I'm a capitalist,
just like anyone else,
don't get confused.
But not everything is a product.
Like think about like fruits
and vegetables.
Should all of those be products?
Or should we still reserve
the ability to grow them in
your backyard if you needed to?
Should nature still be able
to grow them where they naturally grow?
Or should we just get rid of
all of that and everything
is only accessible from the
grocery store?
That just wouldn't be good.
And when it comes to open source,
it's the same situation.
Some people will go and
solve a small problem and
they'll put it on GitHub.
And sometimes that's as far
as it should go.
It should just be a thing on GitHub.
It's a project.
If someone really wants some features,
they can pay a contractor
to add the feature.
Maybe they make some donations.
I think let's encrypt is a great example.
Y'all probably remember our
time where SSL certificates
were high value products.
Like you could pay VeriSign
four hundred to twelve
hundred dollars a year for
an extended validate.
I don't even know what
extended validated means,
but they would give you an
SSL certificate that would
expire like clockwork.
And then you give them
twelve hundred dollars
again for the same certificate.
And the difference between
the one you make and the
one that they make is that
they signed it and people trust them.
So in many ways,
they were sharing their
reputation with you.
Zoom to where we are now.
You have Let's Encrypt generating what?
Almost half of all SSL certificates.
Their reputation is high.
They're built into every
browser and is zero dollars cost to you.
And it's a nonprofit,
so if you consider donating to something,
Let's Encrypt is a good
example of a project that
doesn't need to become a product.
And we should still try to
figure out how to fund those things,
but it doesn't mean that
they have to IPO.
And I think that's a little
bit more sustainable for
most of the projects that are out there.
I mean, I think that's a really good point,
actually,
because there's something very
close to that in the same view.
There's a BIMI certificate
to get your logo to show up
in emails and has almost no other value.
And it's been trying to be
sold like certificates of
old for twelve hundred,
fifteen hundred dollars
just for your logo to show up there.
and there's only two
companies that offer it and
people are complaining that
let's encrypt you know
isn't offering it yet uh
it's so ridiculous honestly
that some of these things
have been uh productized
and there is no way around
that I mean look if you can
sell it more power to you
but I don't think we should
prohibit a let's encrypt
like solution that shows up
competes with it
And then becomes the standard.
And I think a lot of people
are afraid of that, you know,
and people say, you've copied my project.
It's like, dude, you open sourced it.
You chose a license that
said I could do that.
I don't know how this is stealing or copy.
Like,
I thought that's what you wanted me
to do.
So one of the things I think
would be really interesting
to talk about is how
You've obviously been very
successful in your career,
but that's only like one
part of who you are as a human.
So what did you do
throughout your career to
balance the professional
side of Kelsey Hightower
with the personal side?
And specifically around how
you maintain sanity and prevent burnout.
Yeah, I mean,
I think I walked the burnout
line most of my career,
but I think it feels different.
When you put a lot of effort
into something and you get
the results you want,
it's the same effort.
it feels like man that that
was good I want to do it
again so you probably need
some rest but you're
probably still working
nights and weekends you're
probably on call a little
too much but if you do the
same amount of effort and
you don't get the outcomes
like you don't get that
promotion you don't get the
raise it doesn't work I
think that's what all the
other emotions creep in
Right.
That that feeling sucks.
And when you're tired and
you have that feeling,
it feels like burnout and
they're dangerous because
they're the same.
And so for me,
one thing I've done in my
career is I kind of learned
how to set like a goal that
meant something to me and
not necessarily the company.
So burnout would be I'm
going to do all of this and
hopefully I get promoted.
And it turns out maybe
because of politics,
you don't get the promotion.
And so you felt like the
whole last three to four
months was a waste of time.
And you want to quit some of
y'all rage quit unplug the keyboard.
I don't know why.
When you get to the office,
you drive all the way to work.
So you can quit in front of everybody.
Right?
Because that's how you feel.
But when you kind of think about yourself,
I started I don't know,
maybe it's around year
seven of my career.
I started thinking like, yo,
this job can fire me for any reason.
This is not my family.
And even they can kick me
out for any reason.
And so what skills do I need
for the next gig?
So I'm going to always,
just from my attitude and my ethics,
I'm going to do as best of
a job as I can with the current one.
But if they're not teaching
me the next set of skills I
need to be successful, that's on me.
And I'll give you a good example.
In twenty twelve,
I was working at Puppet Labs, right?
So I was in a financial
institution contributing to open source.
I learned Ruby just so I can
contribute to Puppet,
the configuration management tool.
I gave a talk at Puppet Conf.
This is why public speaking is great.
All of those open source contributions,
you would never know my name.
Given a talk at Puppet Conf,
you know who I am.
And so now people can see me.
And while I was in town,
I did an interview and I
got a job at Public Labs.
And I learned Ruby and those
skills I was able to cash in on.
Around a year, maybe a year and a half in,
a new programming language emerges,
Golang.
And I'm looking at him like,
why do we need another
programming language?
We got Python, we got Ruby.
We have all of these things.
And it was like, hey,
this thing's in the middle
between dynamic languages
and things like C++.
And at the time, I'm working on Puppet.
And Puppet uses Ruby.
And Ruby has a global lock interpreter.
It can really start to have
performance problems at a certain scale,
even for something as
simple as pulling
configuration files down
and trying to sync them
across a set of nodes.
And so we started moving
towards the JVM using tools like Closure.
But I saw this Go thing.
And I was like, hmm,
let me try it on one of our
projects back there.
Back there's a thing in
Puppet Land that gets all
the information about a
node and sends it over to
the main server so it can
generate your configs.
I was like, why is that in Ruby?
Wouldn't it be faster and a single binary,
nothing to install, not even Ruby?
And I got it to work.
I was like, yo,
we might be able to solve
our performance problem and
we can ease installation.
And I remember being like, yo,
you can't use Go here
because it doesn't run on Solaris or AIX.
And I was like,
what are you talking about?
Like, they'll get around to that,
but I don't know if that's
where the industry is going.
We became an enterprise company.
And then I remember Docker
coming out and it was written in Go.
And I'm sitting here like,
I got a feeling that this
is going somewhere.
And then Terraform comes out.
And I'm sitting here like,
what are we doing?
We're not paying attention.
Things are changing.
And so I left Puppet Labs.
I created a config
management tool called
CompD using Go and etcd.
And I went to the next space like, hey,
this is the type of thing I want to do.
And Go just paid off for me
so much because then it
became my on-ramp to CoreOS.
And I had all the skills to
participate and develop and
open source my own project,
and then the roads lead to Google.
And so just that little bit
of planning of saying, I know where I am,
but just investing on
what's next and just making that personal,
that became a big part of my career.
So the balance was not there,
just to be honest and transparent.
I didn't figure out the
family and work situation,
but I did believe that these skills
would contribute to the
future that I want.
And so last year,
I cashed in on all of those big bets.
And me and my wife retired at forty two.
And so it kind of feels like, yes,
I didn't have perfect
balance the whole way through.
There were times where I did
take good vacations and got
off right at five,
but there were times where
it was lots of nights and weekends.
But when I turned to my wife
in July of last year and said,
was it worth it?
She said, yes,
because we both retired now.
And so that's the way I thought about it.
There's a long game component to this too.
For sure.
Yeah.
Have you found since
retiring that you have to
struggle or that you're...
undriven in how you spend your time?
Cause it's like,
I think a lot of people
look at retirement as a, Oh, I'll wake up,
play some golf, go hang out in the lounge,
you know, that, that type of thing.
And, and I don't think that's realistic.
I don't think that's sustainable.
So have you found it
difficult to occupy your
time and keep yourself
active mentally and physically?
No, that's not at all.
Because you know how we are.
Hey, babe, I would like a bidet.
Hmm.
What is the best bidet in the world?
Right?
That's thirty hours right there.
Just researching comments, Reddit posts.
Oh, Toto.
Oh, people like those.
Hmm.
When was Toto invented?
How many have they sold?
What's the history?
Now I'm watching a Toto
documentary on bidets.
and how they were created,
and how they were tested,
and the engineering that goes into those.
And I was like, well,
I can't just buy a bidet
seat without a matching toilet.
So now,
I got to learn how to swap out all
the toilets.
What's the difference
between one point six
gallons per flush versus
one point two eight?
Oh,
Washington state has a law that all new
toilets must be one point
two eight gallons of flush
for the climate efforts.
So I'm now deep in this rabbit hole.
I got three new toilets and
three bidet seats,
but they draw fourteen
forty watts of power.
You cannot put that on a
normal electrical socket
with your lights because
the lights will flicker.
If you do the math,
fifteen times one twenty,
that gives you about
eighteen hundred watts of power.
Didn't know that.
So when you turn on the bidet seat,
the lights will figure
because of the draw.
And some of these lights are
just sensitive.
The breaker doesn't trip.
So what do you need?
You need more power.
More importantly,
you need dedicated power.
So now I have holes in my
garage ceiling because I'm
running twenty amp circuits
only after I learned how to
pull a permit from the county.
I have no shortage of things to do.
And I would say one other thing.
I just started saying yes to everything.
Do you want to go to my
friend's birthday party?
They'll be dancing and eating.
I don't like to dance, but now, yes.
And I'm going to dance anyway.
And so it's a lot more yes
to the people stuff.
It's a lot more patience in
who are these people.
Talk to them.
Be interested.
There are other stories out
there that are not tech-related.
And so I think I just
started opening up myself
more to just more things.
Because you know how it is,
when you work nine to five,
that means someone else
finds something to do with
your time from nine to five,
they figure out how to
maximize their investment.
All you have to do is,
can you not do the same?
And so it's more of it's not
about not working.
It's more about working for
yourself and having more
time to work at being a good human,
being a good father, being a good husband,
being a good all these
other things that you're
kind of on the hook for as well.
What's been the most
surprising thing that
you've said yes to that?
You were like, Oh,
I didn't know I was gonna like that.
Honestly,
it's going to be those parties
where there's lots of
dancing and getting... I
hate getting dressed up.
I don't like shirts with collars.
I bought my first blazer a month ago.
dressing up ain't my thing.
It's like, oh, you got to go through this.
What do you mean it has to match?
Oh, my God.
We're not going to the Met Gala.
Like, why?
We're just supposed to go to
the birthday party, Chuck E. Cheese,
some coins for the machines, pizza,
we're done.
What's all this other stuff?
And so you just say yes.
And then you go and all
these people have different backgrounds.
You listen to them.
I like dancing.
I used to dance a lot when I was younger.
You can still have fun dancing.
You don't need to be the best dancer.
You can just be there and
just enjoy and just be in
the moment and not rush so much.
So what I found is I like
just going to these random
events as long as I have
the time to just be there
and not worried about some
email piling up.
or about getting power to
the days yeah I like those
too I feel like the flush
followed by the lights
flickering that's sort of a
special sort of uh
experience yeah you're like
what's wrong and then you
start doing the research but I've been so
Yeah,
I think it's being important to know
how these subsystems in
your house work from the
plumbing to the AC to the
electrical to how the Floyd Joyce align.
And so my tool bag is
getting pretty massive now
as I'm collecting these random tools.
But I don't know.
I just kind of see it like
my software and my tech career.
The more tools you have,
the more problems you can
solve when they come up.
So this is just another investment for me.
Yeah, I mean,
it's pretty it's pretty
related from my experience,
having worked with and
hired through a lot of
people that how you operate
in a professional
environment is very similar
to maybe your core values
and how they come out in
your personal life as well.
So, I mean,
obviously you've transitioned
and you're still going out
and looking into how to
solve these problems that
you're generating yourself,
but important to you in a
similar way in which you
did in your career.
Absolutely.
Home Depot, Lowe's, or other?
Amazon,
mainly because of the ability to
select and choose.
Maybe I just like the Home
Depot color scheme to
default to Home Depot.
And I think Lowe's,
if they carry the thing I want,
I'm just going to buy it there.
But honestly, you know how this works.
There's always like a Lowe's
and Home Depot across the
street from each other.
And my guess is wherever I
get off the freeway exit, whoever's first,
you're winning.
That's one of the things I
do like about having the
physical store close
whenever it comes to tools
is you can go in, you can pick it up,
feel it,
and kind of get an idea for it
that you don't really get
that experience when
shopping online for it.
Now,
I do try my best to go to my local
hardware store.
Like those little, you know,
in your neighborhood,
they have some obscure
things that you need last
minute and they're close by.
I try to give them as much
money as possible when I'm
buying this stuff because
it's really convenient to have one close.
You know how to drive, you know,
five or ten minutes down the road.
and some people further.
And so those small businesses,
they tend to be helpful.
They tend to answer
questions that other people
don't have time to answer.
So I do try to support those
local businesses as well.
Yeah,
there's a an Ace Hardware just near
us here.
And all the Ace Hardware is I guess,
are independently owned and operated.
But you're right, you know,
whenever we go in there,
they're always like, hey,
how did that last project turn out?
You know,
and you get this rapport with
them where they're kind of
they're kind of emotionally
invested in whatever you're
working on along with you, which is cool.
Yeah,
one of the biggest surprise and I
know a lot of people
probably think this should be normal.
When I was going to like
those trade stores,
like where plumbers buy
their equipment and, you know,
wholesale various things.
I walked in,
I told the person my name once.
Then I came back,
and as soon as I walked in the store,
he's like, hey, Kelsey.
And I looked around like,
you can't possibly know me from that.
You just gave me a quote last time.
And he made it a pride to say my name.
And I just thought that was
amazing that they pay that
level of attention to
detail because I think when
you're selling what is
arguably a huge commodity,
they don't necessarily make
any of this stuff.
Any other store could sell this stuff.
The level of customer
service and the way they treat people,
it's just a good reminder
is that sometimes that
makes all the difference.
Yeah,
it's amazing how much something just
just remembering your name
leaves such a favorable impression.
I had a similar scenario
about a month ago.
I went to an irrigation supply store,
didn't even know those things existed,
but it's just like
warehouse place that just had.
irrigation you know the
sprinklers and the valves
and the manifolds and stuff
and I go in and the lady
that's working there I kind
of butchered out in my best
English what I was trying
to do and she's like oh
yeah she hands me this
empty cardboard box and
it's like follow me you
know and takes me through
these aisles and she's
throwing shit in the box
you know and just
completely hooks me up and
then I get back and start
piecing all this stuff together and
through that little bit of a description,
she gave me everything that
I needed to complete the
project and nothing I didn't need.
And I was like, wow, that is so cool.
I mean, the DevOps folks listening,
I don't think people
understand you're also in
the customer service business.
Yeah,
a lot of times I think people get
very confused.
You work at this company.
This is how we do things.
Look, maybe you're even open to new ideas.
Maybe you're like doing this DevOps thing.
But truth is,
I don't think people realize
that you're in the customer
service business.
When someone's trying to get
something accomplished,
typically they're doing it
because it's the work.
They didn't wake up one morning.
It was like, you know what?
I want to do a thing we don't need to do.
Like they typically need to have it done.
And if you could be like
that person that says,
here's everything you need
because you learn your job so well.
that you know that even
though they didn't ask you,
you're just making sure
that they're set up for success.
And that's where those kind of,
I don't know,
those getting started guides,
those one button deploys,
all of these little things
we do just to make sure
that people don't struggle
or get in the way of the big job.
Because in your situation,
you have a bigger problem
that you need to solve.
I'm only coming to the store
to get the tools so I can
go back to the big problem.
That's why I like referring to  go ahead,
Warren.
No,
I'm so glad you didn't say like just so
they could do their job,
like just so that they
could they didn't have to
worry about this,
because I feel like it's so
often in the industry that
I hear anyone who's outside
of doing on feature related work that, oh,
I'm just here to make it so
that no one has to focus
about this area at all.
But I think realistically,
that's not what's super effective.
And I think the you know,
the story about pulling out
all of the parts for all
water reclamation, etc.
You have to know what's going on there.
You have to be able to have
a conversation and
collaborate and give them what they need.
But it goes both ways, right?
You know,
they have the project idea in mind.
You don't just hand them a
one-click deploy.
You know it's probably the right answer,
but there is some
conversation about what
you're working on to
actually even make that
recommendation in the first place.
Yeah,
I wanted to add that that's why I
like referring to DevOps as
a trade so much because it...
It mentally, I associate that with,
you know,
electrician or a plumber or a carpenter.
And it's a, you know, a skills,
a skilled trade.
And it makes me think of
someone who's gone through
the ranks of apprentice to
journeyman and taken the
time and effort to master
that trade so that they
know the ins and outs of it.
And they know which tools to
use to help you successful
in whatever it is you're
trying to accomplish.
I like this analogy a lot
because that was kind of
always my hang up with just
the word DevOps.
You can just use the title,
whether you're a trades
person with the right attitude or not.
You just said we're just doing DevOps.
How?
Like when you become an electrician,
there's a lot of stages
like you got to be like a
journeyman for like a
decade before you consider
like a master electrician
and every job you do.
there's a knowledgeable
inspection that's like,
this doesn't meet code.
And you have this,
sometimes it feels like a
rigorous feedback loop,
but there is a feedback
loop saying that's not quite right.
And then you have a group of
people that can look at
each other's tool bags and like, yo,
that's what this thing is for.
This is this particular procedure.
A lot of times what I've seen, and look,
it's not everyone.
There are some people who do
this immaculately well,
whether they use the word DevOps or not,
they're just gonna be good at their jobs.
But there are some people
who don't really understand the job,
but they've adopted the title.
And so in those scenarios, it's like, oh,
I mean,
we just been running this raggedy
ass script for seven years,
but it's DevOps now because
we added flags to it.
It's like, what are you talking about?
There's this part where you
have to pay attention to
how things are changing.
If you're going to be a
professional electrician,
the standards change.
And your job is to have,
I think they require so
many hours of continuous
education to make sure that
you're up to date on the
various specs and codes.
I've watched a lot of people
not learn anything.
Like even if you're not
going to use Terraform.
You should know what it does.
You should know how it
compares to the thing
you're currently doing.
I'm not saying you got to
all cargo cult the next new thing,
but you have to understand
why the new thing exists.
You have to at least be able
to compare to like what
you're currently doing so
you can make an informed
decision not to use it.
And so I've seen a lot of
people just holding back themselves.
their team,
or the whole organization
because they forget that
professional development component that,
okay,
are my skills where they need to be?
Are my tools where they need to be?
Let's be clear about what I mean,
are your tools where they need to be?
Like, those professional IDEs, I'm like,
why would people ever use those?
And I remember I was trying
to get something done in a
language I'd never used.
And I pulled down one of
these JetBrains IDEs, the autocomplete,
the debugging,
some of the things they do.
Because as a full-time software developer,
I don't have time to be
switching between seven, five.
It's going to cost me too much time.
And you see this with tradespeople.
Some of the tools they have, like,
why do they make a wrench
just to do this one thing?
It's like, because.
Without this wrench,
you're going to be back and
forth with the wrong tools.
You're going to break something.
You're going to cut yourself.
That's what this tool is for.
And so I think as you're
going to be a person,
a practitioner in the DevOps movement,
nothing wrong with being where you are.
It's just that that can't be
the case five years from now.
for sure it's not the type
of career that you're going
to land your first job and
you can ride that thing out
until you hit sixty five
and start collecting social
security well I think the
mindset is sort of the
whole point there that the
mindset is that you have to
automate your job away
almost you want to
understand what's an
improvement for that even
that space you know does
that mindset translate to
the team that you're
working on or the
organization making the
shift if that's not what's
happening you know who is
Who is responsible for that?
And, you know, Kelsey,
you said something here and
I feel like I got triggered.
Someone may have heard it and be like, oh,
you know what?
There's no like DevOps certification yet,
right?
Maybe we should go out and
get one of those.
No, you know,
there's some company that can
start selling this for sure.
These are the tools you need
to be having your toolbox
in order to be an effective
DevOps person.
You know what?
You know,
I might say maybe if it was from
a good place,
if it came from a right kind of moment,
because, for example,
you set the mindset.
it's hard to have a good
mindset without
accountability I'm good at
what I do how do you know
you don't know right
because most professional
endeavors like when I say
professional meaning
they're judged like yo you are not good
don't get to play on the
team you're not good or
you're good but you're no
longer competitive see
that's different like you
can have ten years of
experience you've done good
for us but the new people
coming into the game the
game has changed they move
faster their tools are
better as much as we want
to keep you around we cannot
And so that's when a mindset
shift has to occur,
because you just won't have a job.
But imagine a scenario where
the company doesn't hire
those type of people.
They don't wanna pay for
So you're in your little bubble,
still doing stuff from, like,
I'm killing it.
You see this corn shell?
The spaces are perfect.
It's like, look,
nothing wrong with corn shell.
I'm just saying,
for what you're trying to achieve,
There might be a better way of doing it.
He's like, no, it doesn't.
Coursera works just fine.
See,
that's the dangerous component that I
think is the trap that a lot of these,
you know,
whether it's DevOps or some
other movement tries to address.
And I do think awareness.
So I'm not necessarily the biggest fan,
but it's really valuable
having things like the DevOps report.
Because when you get to see
what other companies are doing,
that's extremely valuable
because it's hard to get
better if you don't know
where the bar is.
And so I do think people
have to go and just at
least do a little bit of
self-reflection and look at
these things and say, hmm,
has the goalposts moved and
should I move towards them?
Yeah, I mean,
there's an important aspect here,
which would be a huge miss otherwise,
realistically,
if they're not paying attention to that.
I think an important aspect
here is if your company isn't changing,
it's probably because they
may not even know, right?
If you're in the position of doing the...
in what you call DevOps,
if that's what you're doing,
if that's even your title,
or maybe you're doing
something that helps and
just supports the teams by
building some tools,
you're not innovating in that space.
If you're not going out and
learning those additional
what other companies are
doing or what new tools are available,
even how the mindset is changing,
there may not be anyone
doing that else in the company.
That means your company
won't be effective.
Your company won't be
innovating if you're not
the one doing that.
And I feel like
If you're just focusing on
the tools you've got and
what has been working for
the last ten to twenty years,
you're definitely going to
be falling behind.
Now, one thing I will say, though,
there are some things I
don't want to change.
And so I know we say
innovation a lot and
someone should be innovating for sure.
Somewhere there should
always be some form of
innovation happening.
It's harder than most people think.
And sometimes you do just
need companies to be in execution mode.
Like some of these microphones,
like this R-A-Twenty that
I'm using from Electro-Voice,
these things are roughly
the same for decades.
And when you change them,
because you're trying to do innovation,
like add a USB-C port on it,
and it throws off the sound
because of the circuitry that you put in.
Don't want that innovation.
Leave the XLR cable and I
will plug it into my own end.
Don't change it.
Now,
they've innovated to get to this point,
no doubt.
But sometimes people say, hey,
so it's such a hard thing to do.
It's like,
when do you change and when do you not?
And I think that's the part
where a skillful person
will constantly be aware
and have a good reason,
we do not need to use this
new thing in this context.
So I just want you to be aware,
have the ability to,
but boy is judgment so
important to keep you from
chasing new and shiny
versus staying focused on
the task at hand.
I use a personal rule here.
It's my rule of three,
Warren's rule of three.
If I hear about a product or
a tool or an area, mindset,
whatever it is, three times,
I know that I have to
invest in understanding
what that is more.
Either because if I don't,
no one else will do it.
Maybe it really will become my problem.
It will land on my lap in some way,
and I'll regret not having
done it earlier.
Or I may just be the only
person who is at the
intersection of where that
keeps happening.
I'm the right person to
actually take that next step.
So if I say Beetlejuice, Beetlejuice,
Beetlejuice, that's three, right?
There's a second movie coming out.
There is,
and I cannot tell you how excited
my wife is to see it.
It's like, oh,
I didn't know this was a thing, but okay,
let's go.
Vita Juice is a classic.
I mean, I went back and watched it.
I was like, yo, I mean,
you got to be into that kind of thing,
but it is a classic for its time,
and even the rewatchability
was pretty good.
So the rewatchability was good on it?
I mean, part one, I mean,
it's a quirky movie.
Some things I thought were amazing.
I go back and watch it like, yo,
this is pretty terrible.
But Peterjuice has its own
unique style and story
format and visuals.
I think it's worth a rewatch.
Right on.
Cause I remember seeing it
whenever I was younger, but,
but like you said, so many,
like there's so many movies
I watched when I was
younger that I just have
built up in my mind.
And then I go back and rewatch them.
I was like, Oh, that was,
I should have just stuck
with the memory on that one.
I'm lucky if I remember the titles,
because I saw so many
movies where you missed the
first couple of minutes.
And this is back, of course,
where if you don't see the title screen,
that's it.
You know,
you'll never know what the name
of that movie is ever again.
If I'm lucky, like years down the road,
I'd see a rerun of it.
And I'll watch the beginning,
see the name of the title, and then, wait,
I've seen this before,
but I have no idea what it is.
And then I'd put it together.
to get entertained twice.
I mean,
there's movies I probably watched
ten times and still don't
get the title right.
I think it's The Last Dragon.
Yeah, The Last Dragon, I believe.
And I don't know the title,
but it's like a spoof on karate movies,
but it's a serious movie.
Bruce Leroy,
they got this glow thing going
and it's like in like the
eighties settings and you
got black folks doing kung
fu and karate in Harlem.
It is insane, this movie.
If you haven't seen The Last Dragon,
you don't know whether to
laugh or take it serious
because it's just that type of movie.
So if you've ever seen Big Trouble,
Little China,
it's in the same realm of those.
So if you've seen Big Trouble,
Little China,
then you have to add The
Last Dragon to the
collection just to round things out.
I'm making a note of that.
I am.
There's got to be a black
guy doing this thing.
If you see that, Bruce Leroy.
That's how you know.
I'm not talking to one with Bruce Lee.
No, this is Bruce Leroy.
Seriously.
And you watch it.
There's the bad guy is Shogun.
Like, trust me,
I think you're going to appreciate it.
I know what I'm doing tonight.
So do you spend a lot of
time watching movies?
I know, but when I do,
I try to really lean into that one movie.
I try not to judge whether
this movie is better than that movie.
You're going to watch a
movie that's like two and a
half hours of your life.
I just try to just really
appreciate that movie.
And I used to have this,
I don't think it was a good rule at all.
If I've seen it already, I'm done.
I don't want to see it again.
I already saw it.
But now what I'm realizing
is that second and third watch,
you're starting to notice
and pick up on things.
Like now that you got the
plot and you go back and
you just watch how they build up to it,
sometimes you can respect it more.
Sometimes instead of you,
because I used to get
nervous when you're watching a movie,
I don't want to pay
attention too much to this
one character because they
may not be around the whole movie.
Right.
But once you go through it once,
then you can go back to the
character development.
Why do they make these
flawed decisions or good decisions?
So yeah, multiple times,
but I'm a little bit more patient now.
I for sure had the same
problem very early on.
I was like,
I don't need to watch anything again.
It's already ruined if
there's a spoiler or a twist.
And I was particularly a fan of film noir,
but I think what broke me
was actually re-watching Futurama,
where...
Such a high level of
intellect gone into
building every single
episode and the story is so
continuous over the
original seven season run
that there are some little
jokes that you don't get.
You for sure will never get.
that you only know because
you know the later content.
And you come back and
there's an episode where someone says,
oh yeah, that's ridiculous,
that could never happen.
But you don't know why
that's the case until later.
And I feel like you get
double entertainment out of
some of your favorite movies for sure.
But you know what's odd though?
We don't typically do that with music.
We can listen to the same
song over and over and over again,
but movies, for some reason, we feel like,
you know,
maybe if the plot is ruined or
we know how it's going to end,
but we know how songs end.
and we still listen to them again.
And the one thing I'd done
on the music side was
listen to it sometimes with
the lyrics up.
Like on Apple Music,
you can bring up the lyrics.
And so as you're listening,
you can also read the words.
And sometimes I would just
go read the words without
listening to the song because number one,
I'm not, I can't sing.
And it turns out I don't
know the lyrics to the
majority of the songs I listened to.
And people are like,
you know what that song is about, right?
I'm like, no,
I don't know what that song is about.
And so now I found it really
important to understand
what the artist was thinking at the time.
the artist is and why they
write the song the way that
they wrote it because it's
so important it brings so
much depth to music like in
the air of the night phil
collins like that song is
super deep most people
don't really understand
what it's about but when
you read the lyrics and
then your mind starts to
like fill in the gaps you're like oh
This is a very serious song.
And then you learn the
context of the song of
inviting the person to the
concert and then singing the song.
It's like, this is much deeper.
So then it finds its place
in kind of my top songs of all time.
I see that there's a huge
pattern with how you
approach just whatever you're focusing on,
whether or not it's music, movies,
personal life, or professionally.
This idea to really have the
discipline to go really
deep in whatever that thing
is that you're working on.
There's not just one more
thing or whatever I'm doing
at this moment, but
real, a hundred percent focus,
probably more on that area
so that you can fully
understand and appreciate, uh,
whatever that is.
And I, like,
I feel like there's a lot of
aspect where I do that,
but it really does require
intentional discipline to pull that off.
It's not something that
happens accidentally.
I mean, I think I'm,
I'm afraid of things I don't understand.
You know what I mean?
Like,
what does this thing do and why is it
doing it?
And so whenever that question comes up,
I feel like I gotta solve it.
You know, it's like when people,
like I'm one of these
people that if I see a puzzle,
it's over for me.
And my mom knows this,
like I'm forty-three years old.
When I go visit,
she has a new puzzle on the table.
And she opens the box, puts it next to it,
and there'd be the pieces scattered out.
And I'm like, oh my God.
puzzle.
This must be solved.
Now.
You're on the way out.
I gotta do at least a few
pieces before we leave.
And before the trip is over,
I am not satisfied until
that puzzle is solved.
And so my real life is like this too.
It's like, why did someone do this?
why is the stock its current
price does my phone listen
to me if so how like I just
need to know these things
so I it also keeps me from
I think a lot of stress
people have you're trying
to pay attention to
everything and then you
don't know how anything
works and so then you're
just you're not really
growing or improving and
these people are very susceptible to
chatter, propaganda.
They don't know what's true
or what's not because they
don't have time to process.
So everything is just streamed at them.
And then everything just happens to them.
And so I think it's like
when you first get into
tech and you log into your first server,
SSH XYZ, and you're in.
And you're like, oh.
And so you can actually go
really far in your career
just running commands over and over.
And it doesn't work.
You ask someone, what do I do here?
They say, run it this way.
And you just run it this way.
You're an operator.
But the moment you write
that first shell script and
you make the other scripts
do something different,
That's when you feel like, hey,
I'm not just here to be a
consumer or an operator,
I can create stuff too.
But the key though is you
have to know how things
actually work and then you
can rearrange the pieces.
And so when it comes to anything in life,
it's like, hey,
you can't learn everything, Kelsey,
like you're right.
I'm just saying,
learn the things you're
dealing with in that moment.
So if you're gonna be listening to a song,
just read the lyrics.
Who was the artist?
Were they in a band previously?
What other music did they do?
What genre is this?
Do you like that genre?
Who else is in this genre?
So then that just gives you
a chance to go super deep
on this thing that's in front of you.
And then hopefully by the
time you're also forty three,
you've done this so many
times that it does feel
like you're a knowledgeable
person because you've taken
the time to go deep
What do we call these people?
We call them like T-shaped engineers.
They have the breath, but the depth.
Because instead of just like
learning a bunch of things,
they went deep.
And so, yeah, it does take a long time.
But when you're done, you have both.
I really like it.
So do you have a favorite?
Sorry.
Do you have a favorite genre of music?
I grew up on hip hop.
And the reason why that's so
nostalgic as a kid
good things would happen in your life,
right?
Like you would go outside,
you would win the game.
You just got a new Nintendo
game for your birthday.
So you remember the song that was playing.
Like you're listening to your,
back in my day, Walkman.
And you played this game,
you had a really good
experience playing the game,
and this is a song you heard first.
And that song etches the
memory and links everything together.
And so for me, that was hip-hop.
And then when I was reading
the lyrics around hip-hop
and studying the origins of hip-hop,
you think about this group
of people in the earliest
forms of that genre,
you can't afford
instruments and creating
music from scratch.
A lot of people didn't go to
school for music theory and
knew how to read or write sheet music.
But what you did know is
like what music you like
and what music other people like.
And so what do you do?
You take records,
And you find the part that everyone likes.
How do you know it's a good part?
Because you're watching people dance.
And when it gets to that break,
you're like, oh,
people seem to like this part.
So you take that part and you loop it.
not with some fancy computer or screen.
You literally got two
turntables and you're
marking on the record where
the good part is and you loop it, right?
And then the next person is like, yo,
I can rhyme over the top of the good part,
but you just got to keep it
going long enough for me to do this.
And so you just think about how technical
you need to be to produce hip hop.
You can't play any instruments.
You can't necessarily resheet music.
I'm not saying everyone's like that.
There's so many people in
this genre then and now.
But to still be able to
create something that has
such a global impact
And also,
when you look at the history of a
lot of those people,
they're coming from some
really rough environments
where there's a lot of politics,
things that are happening to them,
various movements.
And for anyone that writes blog posts,
journals, anything, writing is thinking.
And a lot of those people,
when they wrote their rhymes,
they were showing you or
expressing their situation.
They couldn't get media coverage.
They're not on the movies.
They're not on the TV shows,
but they got their music.
And so hip hop to me is one
of those things where it
documented my life.
You're hearing other people
document theirs.
And it's just one of these
genres that resonates so much,
but then the bleed in and crossover,
because when I go listen to
other genres of music, the drum patterns,
the rhyme schemes, the collaborations,
right?
So the first time I remember
listening to like other genres of music,
when I heard like a rap
artist and an R&B artist
get on a record together, I'm like,
what's that?
When I started to understand
where the samples came from, oh,
what is this disco thing?
What is this jazz thing?
And so then it just kind of
branched out into these other genres.
So that's the nucleus for me,
but it branched me into all
these other ones.
So I love Sade.
Sometimes I just need to be
calm and relaxed.
So I'll jump into Sade.
I grew up in Southern California.
And I remember hearing Nirvana,
Teen Spirit for the first time, right?
I'm all in my hip hop.
But when you hear that song,
I don't care what genre of
music you like.
That one's going to jump in.
And then last thing I would
say is when I play Guitar Hero,
I was never into some of
the rock and metal stuff.
I never branched out.
But man, playing Guitar Hero,
and you get introduced to
all of these bands,
and there's something about
paying attention to a song.
I've listened to rock in the past,
but it didn't jive.
It just didn't make sense.
But then when you play Guitar Hero,
You're not reading sheet music,
but you gotta pay attention
to the song so you can play the notes."
And at that moment, I was like,
I can't even push the color
buttons fast enough.
How is Slash doing this in real life?
And so then I became
respectful of the instrument,
and then the people who
could play that way.
So yeah,
that's been my kind of over time
expanding into the other genres.
But it all starts with the
respect for the instruments
and the artists that write
the music that goes with them.
Right on.
Mine was almost the exact
opposite of that.
Cause I had a, like growing up,
I heard a lot of country
music and like what's now
called classic rock.
And then later,
whenever I started hearing hip hop, um,
I picked up on the sampling, like,
wait a minute,
that's a Led Zeppelin riff
or wait a minute,
that's thirty eight special,
which kind of then just
forced me deeper down to that to see,
well, if they're sampling that,
what else did they sample?
You know what, when Run DMC,
I forget what band they
collaborated with.
Aerosmith.
Yeah, Aerosmith.
And I should have known who
Aerosmith was by then, but I didn't.
And just see them at the same time,
I was like, I like the way this sounds.
And when I started listening
to Rick Rubin and how he made music,
I think what made Rick Rubin so unique,
he brought in those
elements into hip hop.
And so for a lot of hip hop artists,
that whole brand of music
from Def Jam in those days,
you were hearing this
ultimate collaboration and crossover.
For sure.
Yeah.
Rick Rubin was he was a very
I don't know if you want to
say forward thinking, but innovative,
like the way he just listened to music.
And then I think he was very
instrumental in bringing
those different genres
together and letting them
capitalize on what was
successful from the others
and bring it into their own genre.
All right.
Well,
I kind of feel like we covered a few
topics here.
You know what?
We should cover AI.
Oh, let's talk about AI.
I've been seeing you post a
little bit on X. Yeah.
So what you thinking?
So like a lot of you all,
when I saw early AI,
like the stuff that's
inside of your Google Maps,
the stuff that's been in your Gmail,
the stuff that has been in
a lot of your sensors and
cameras and all of these things,
like you've lived with this
so much so that you don't
even talk about AI anymore,
just like we don't talk
about syntax in the
products that get shipped, right?
It just becomes an
ingredient of the whole.
And so this resurgence of
large language models, right?
This would be your chat GPTs, you know,
Lama from Meta.
And these things are
interesting because people
are trying to build this
general purpose tool that
can interact largely with
the language driven interface.
And for a lot of people,
they haven't made the
connection on where this
fits on the lineage of AI ML.
But it's the first time that
you're seeing something
that looks like you do.
Think about it.
When we say prompt engineering,
this idea of asking a thing,
what is my birthday?
It doesn't know because it has no context.
It doesn't know who you are.
Now, you could say, what's my birthday?
What is Kelsey Hightower's birthday?
And it's going to guess from what,
from whatever it found on the internet.
So that's its training set.
But when you interact with
something like that,
it feels a lot how we
interact with each other.
I was reading somewhere
earlier that it takes
twenty watts of power for
your brain and your brain.
Look,
you don't know everything and you
can't memorize everything.
So that's your disadvantage.
But your advantage is that
you can generalize.
Human with new problem on
twenty watts of power,
you can do with a room,
a building full of the most
expensive GPUs.
We're talking kilowatts of
power times in number of those units.
Right.
So you're a factor of
multiples of what you can
accomplish with real
intelligence and the things
we don't know yet.
And so when I see people
look at this new paradigm and it's scary.
because the only thing we've
seen interact this way are people.
And for some reason,
we put people at the
highest part of the
hierarchy in the galaxy, right?
People are at the top,
the most intelligent,
they can be dangerous, they can be safe,
they can be kind, they could be mean,
they can be whatever.
And we're usually only
limited by our physical
abilities or the machines
we tend to operate.
And you can fill in the gaps.
And so when we say that
we're going to generate a
thing that's a void or void of ethics,
reason, purpose,
and give it access to all the power,
and let it operate the same machines,
we all get nervous.
So in simpler terms,
if you're in DevOps or you write code,
you're thinking to yourself, hmm,
what do I do?
And at a high level,
you kind of get driven the same way.
Someone opens a Jira ticket.
I would like x. That's the prompt.
You convert that prompt to
the best of your ability.
Remember that thing where
you can't remember
everything and you haven't
seen everything?
Well, those LLMs are a little different.
Usually they've seen it all.
They've seen every repository on GitHub.
And they're not biased.
They don't care if it's Ruby or Java.
I've seen a lot of people who say,
I will never touch anything
written in Java.
Fair enough.
That's your preference.
But that's not what that thing does.
This thing learns everything
with very little bias
except for the weights we create.
And so those biases become the model,
right?
You have a model too, and your model,
tends to go underinvested, right?
So think about it.
When we talk about like the
new version of these LLMs,
what we get excited about
is the amount of maybe net
new training data or unique training data,
plus all the work we put
into making the model and
adjusting those little
weights like dip switches
to try to tune that model
hopefully towards the
correct answer or we're
working towards the truth.
So you put a natural
language in front of this truth model,
hopefully it's truthful,
this is what you end up with
now look they're far away
from that so that's one
thing I want you to take
comfort in what you do on
twenty watts of power is
much more efficient than
what that thing does but
your biases are probably
holding you back so when
people think that a lom
like chat gpt is going to
replace your job it could
if you think of your job as
simply taking prompts from
others and just doing
things but what is your job
Your job isn't to just do
what people tell you and run commands.
That's the thing we were
talking about earlier.
Your job is to form a better
model of the world, of your team,
of your company, and your problem space.
See, that model is hard to compete with.
What you currently have,
as long as you keep tuning that model,
you're going to be hyper competitive.
And then here's the punch line.
That thing is just a tool to
complement your model.
That's the trick here.
So a lot of people in DevOps,
are really nervous,
at least the ones I've talked to,
number one,
because I don't think they
understand how this thing works.
They haven't really walked
through the depths of what
it's good at and what it's bad at.
So there's just a bit of fear.
Remember that thing we talked about,
just the stream of stuff
hitting people all the time,
and things are just happening to them.
So I really want people to
rethink this AI thing.
So when I was growing up,
the last thing you wanted
was the artificial version of anything.
The real version costs more.
was real for a reason you're
still the real version and
I want you just to think
about what the real version
can do and I guarantee you
it's under trained you
haven't thought about
walking around with one of
the world's most
sophisticated computing
devices and also the
world's most efficient
computing devices if you
thought about it that way
right,
the same effort that NVIDIA puts
into the next GPU release,
the same effort OpenAI puts
into the next model release.
Imagine if you put in a
fraction of that effort to
training your model and
then releasing that on your colleagues,
the world, your family, and yourself.
So that's kind of my thoughts on AI.
It's so important,
not because you need to
figure out what's the best model.
Just remind yourself that you got one too,
and it's also worth investing in.
Right on.
Fair point.
I think for me,
I've been using it as
almost just like a
colleague to bounce ideas off of.
You know, whenever I'm,
whenever I get the JIRA ticket and like,
oh, I'm thinking about doing this,
you know,
I will use it as something to
bounce ideas off of because
it has such a larger set to
work with and see what
other ideas it has for
solving that problem that I
hadn't thought of.
But.
I tend to agree with you
that I don't think it's at
a human replacement capability.
For most scenarios,
I think there are some
where it probably could.
But for me personally,
which is all I can speak to
my job is to solve problems.
And even whenever it starts
solving the problems that
I'm currently tasked with solving now,
that just means I'm free to
go find other problems to solve.
And the other thing I try to
think about is a lot of the
tools we have don't have
good APIs or interfaces of
interacting with them.
Let's just think about this for a second.
In the cloud,
there are thousands of
resources with thousands of parameters.
It's impossible to find the
right permutation of those
things together.
So what are we given?
Pulumi, Terraform, Puppet Chef, Ansible.
And these are fine,
but they're almost
one-to-one leaking all of those details.
They just give you a way to
express your choices in their language.
But you still have to be
exposed to all of this detail.
And so that's just a very
static way of solving problems.
It works.
You know, we solve the problem once,
we go through all the pain.
We still don't know if we're
making the right decision,
but we at least will make a decision,
form consensus,
and then we write it down
in HCL and say terraform apply.
Nothing wrong with that.
But the interface is not good.
I used to work at a cloud provider.
What should the interface be?
The interface should be,
I need a database that can
hold this amount of data.
And I need it in this
particular reason because
of these particular compliance laws.
And I also need a set of
credentials that only let these apps.
That's how we would think about this.
So imagine I take that and
give it to the system.
That's enough information to
set up a VPC in the right
zone or region with the
right set of credentials,
lock everything else out,
generate the IAM components,
make them available,
and then return back to someone,
your database is ready,
here are the IAM accounts that can log in,
the IP address is over here,
you're at this version,
and it meets all the compliance things.
So what does that tell you?
It tells you that
the systems that we
currently target don't have great APIs.
And so when I think about
what LLMs do and what
fascinates me the most is
they tend to bring a much
better API to the systems
we interact with,
at least in that specific domain.
And the thing that made me
less scared of what it does
is the machine that it
targets is still roughly the same, right?
Because it takes your prompt
and it translates that into
something that it can understand,
if I can use that word.
And then it still has to
manipulate the same underlying machine.
The cloud provider is still the same.
The load balancer is still the same.
The config is still the same.
It's just that the model for
gluing these things
together is refined or can
be refined to the point
where we can get people a
more natural interface,
hence large language models.
And so that's the part where
I'm now going back and
looking at all my tools and saying,
What would a better API be?
We've been so locked into it
has to have a RESTful API, get, put, post,
delete, JSON object.
What is that?
I have to leak all the
details about how the
machine works versus a high-level API.
And I think that new high-level API,
the thing we've always been
afraid to do because of composability,
a high-level API,
whether it's using a large
language model or not,
you can still take the same expression
and just really combine
things using the best practice.
And I think that's what a
lot of people in DevOps do
with our golden paths, right?
If you do things with these inputs,
we already know how to wire
up a better machine so you
don't have to piece it together yourself.
I think a specific example
that resonates with me on
that is least privileged
security with cloud providers,
because like everyone is like,
least privileged security,
but every piece of documentation,
every being a relative word, of course,
every piece of documentation,
references admin privileges
when implementing it.
And so you're in this
iterative loop that lasts
for hours of trying to
figure out which permissions you need.
And I think something like, you know,
a well-trained LLM,
you can tell it which
permissions you want it to have.
And then it returns the IAM
roles that you need to
implement without spending
hours beating your head against the wall.
Yeah.
We're going to get out.
What LLMs are teaching me is
that when you design these systems,
you can't design them in isolation.
You have to be aware of context.
And this is why I think when
you say neural nets and the
network that goes,
it's that shared context
that these things have and
their ability to try things
until they find the perfect combination
But again, I can't stress enough,
a lot of these systems are tuned.
So they're guessing.
And when they're wrong, we can tune them.
And then we have a much more dynamic,
expressive system and framework.
So if you learn anything
from this whole chapter of
LLMs and this movement, number one,
we can build better systems.
We can give them better APIs
and interfaces.
And it will feel like Skynet,
even though it won't be.
He wants to intentionally scare people.
I mean, I do a lot packed in there.
Realistically, I mean,
I think there's something
very on point about how
we've been developing maybe
not even an API effectively,
but really the protocol.
We're just doing a better
job exposing what you have
access to and never really
sort of abstracted it away
in a way which actually
really makes sense.
I think that's a really good
way of looking at it.
It's just an abstraction
layer that is more suited
towards talking to humans
than a REST API is.
I don't know if I'll agree with that part.
It's sometimes very
challenging for me to get
LLMs to spit back out what
I'm looking for in a reasonable way.
I know other people are much
better than myself,
but there is something
challenging about the
natural way in which humans
speak and then get that
Converted into what's been
seen on the internet into a
relative common form.
So we're making progress.
You know,
I think that's the way I kind of
look at it.
We're making progress.
Like SQL was a huge progress
on structured data and how
we get at it and insert it.
And then trying to do that
with natural natural
language is a little more challenging,
especially when these
things aren't tuned.
Uh,
but we're making progress and in the
highlights, uh, an area of opportunity.
Yeah, I mean,
I think we're right now in
the sort of map phase where
we're seeing everything it can do.
And very quickly,
we're also going to see the
reduced cycle where very
specific use cases have a
much better interface for
interacting with them as we
identify what it's optimized for.
And we've already gone that
far with whether it's good or bad,
you know,
it's still a question of content
generation for words,
audio and video and images like
We know that that's a pretty good use case,
so we've improved the
interface there much more
rather than interacting with just text.
You know what I want?
I'm personally less excited
about the generation.
Maybe for things I can't do,
like I can't draw,
so something that can help me draw,
no problem.
But for things like this,
where we're talking into
these mics and you have
varying degrees of background noise,
and it's hard to get the
levels just perfect, just like,
you know how sometimes you
use a really good plug-in
or audio plug-in or filter
and just makes it sound better?
Just give everyone NPR
Studio-level quality
from any mic, right?
I'm already generating the content.
Don't waste cycles doing that.
Just make the audio sound perfect.
Right?
The thing that I've already generated,
just make it perfect.
So anyone enhancement is
probably what I'm really
looking forward to.
So that's the highest thing on my radar.
Pause.
I do have a meeting in two minutes.
I just realized it from my calendar.
Fair enough.
Well,
Thank you so much for your time, man.
I really,
really appreciate you taking the
time to talk with us.
I've enjoyed it a lot.
And you are more than
welcome to come back at any point.
Would love to have you back on.
Awesome.
Well, thanks for having me.
This is dope.
And I also like your all's
interview style and format.
As you know,
the hosts bring out the best
in the particular interview
or a person being interviewed.
So I just wanted to give a
shout out to you all.
It felt really nice.
Awesome.
Thank you, Kelsey.
Have a great day, and thank you, everyone,
for listening.
I hope you all enjoyed the episode,
and we will see you all next week.